Fixed #32381 -- Made QuerySet.bulk_update() return the number of objects updated. (#14559)
django/django: docs/ref/models/querysets.txt

.. method:: bulk_update(objs, fields, batch_size=None)

This method efficiently updates the given fields on the provided model

> instances, generally with one query, and returns the count of objects updated::

Reviewer: Use `number` over `count` for consistency with the same change requested elsewhere.

```suggestion
instances, generally with one query, and returns the number of objects updated::
```

Author: this isn't necessarily part of this patch. shouldn't it ideally require a separate commit?

Author: sorry for the noise, it is part of the patch. updated this as per the suggestion.

    >>> objs[0].headline = 'This is entry 1'
    >>> objs[1].headline = 'This is entry 2'
    >>> Entry.objects.bulk_update(objs, ['headline'])
    2

.. versionchanged:: 4.0

>     Return value with the number of updated objects was added.

Reviewer: It reads fine to me as either `objects updated` -- as Mariusz suggested -- or `updated objects`. I don't mind which as long as it is applied consistently which is not currently the case.

```suggestion
    The return value of the number of objects updated was added.
```

Author: I think the phrase `updated objects` is used now throughout this patch now. please let me now, if that's not the case.

Reviewer 2: No, it's not. In the release note we have `updated objects` in the new caveat `objects updated` etc.

Please use `updated objects` everywhere.

Author: sorry, i just copy pasted Nick's suggestion. I have updated it.

>     This function earlier returned ``None``. Now, it returns the count of the objects updated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    This function earlier returned ``None``. Now, it returns the count of the 
    objects updated.
```

Author: thanks, forget to wrap these.

    >>> objs[0].headline = 'This is entry 1'
    >>> objs[1].headline = 'This is entry 2'
    >>> Entry.objects.bulk_update(objs, ['headline'])
    2

.. versionchanged:: 4.0

>     This function earlier returned ``None``. Now, it returns the count of the
>      objects updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The return value with the number of objects updated was added.
```

Author: Although i am not a native english speaker, i took the liberty to change this to `Return value with the number of updated objects was added` as first `the` appeared unnecessary to me, and `updated objects` as per the above suggestion on the release notes. Let me know if you think this isn't appropriate.

:meth:`.QuerySet.update` is used to save the changes, so this is more efficient
than iterating through the list of models and calling ``save()`` on each of
them, but it has a few caveats:

* You cannot update the object's primary key.

> * Each object's ``save()`` method isn't called, and the

Reviewer 2: This change is not related with the ticket. Please revert it.

Author: i made this into a separate commit. Due to want me to create a new pull request for this?

Reviewer 2: As far as I'm aware the current wording is correct. These notes are about model's primary key (model's field) and `save()` method.

Author: primary key is an attribute on the object of the model class correct? similarly with `save`.

Reviewer: I think `model` is acceptable here. I understand why you may have been confused, but `object` is worse - too vague. Really you were trying to refer to a `model instance`, but the primary key and `.save()` method are defined by the model, not the instance.

Author: okay, i will drop the commit.

  extra query per ancestor.
* When an individual batch contains duplicates, only the first instance in that
  batch will result in an update.

> * The return value of updated objects is expected to be same as the number of objects passed. Although, it may be lesser in case there are duplicate objects passed in the same batch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The return value of updated objects is expected to be same as the number of 
  objects passed. Although, it may be lesser in case there are duplicate objects 
  passed in the same batch.
```

  extra query per ancestor.
* When an individual batch contains duplicates, only the first instance in that
  batch will result in an update.

> * The return value of updated objects is expected to be same as the number of 
>   objects passed. Although, it may be lesser in case there are duplicate objects
>   passed in the same batch.

Reviewer 2: There are also different reasons like race-conditions. IMO in this case less is more, I would remove this _"caveat"_ it can be confusing.
```suggestion
```

Author: I agree with your point about the race condition. This caveat was added as per the https://github.com/django/django/pull/14125#pullrequestreview-611738108. Do you still want me to remove it?

Reviewer 2: We already have a note about duplicates, IMO it's unnecessary and add another one.

@pope1ni What do you think?

Author: i have now used the wording as suggested by Nick. Please let me know if this needs to removed or changed.

Author: question: shouldn't we give a link to something like a wikipedia article or just assume that the readers will be familiar with the context of the word `race` here.
